In this video, we're going to get an overview of the next big application we're going to work on.
Now, this next application really is significantly, significantly larger than what we just put together.
Way more complexity, more services.
Everything is just bigger in nature.
I first want to give you a quick overview of some other applications that already exist out there.
So you may or may not have heard of this app.
It is popular in the US to some degree, I suppose it's called StubHub and it's all about users selling
tickets to sporting events, concerts, stuff like that to other users.
So we're going to build something similar in nature to StubHub.
I want to outline very quickly a couple of different properties around StubHub.
So we come to this main page, we see a lot of different events and whatnot.
We can click on some given event.
We then get the option to select some time or date to go.
So I'll select one of these.
We then get prompted to select an actual ticket.
And again, these are tickets that are for sale by other users.
So I will select some ticket and then go to check out and then I get prompted to log in or enter payment
information or whatever else.
I want you to really think about what is going on behind the scenes as you are trying to purchase these
tickets.
Imagine that I am trying to purchase a ticket for a very, very popular event.
I don't know what's popular these days, but maybe it's just some really popular event.
So maybe the instant that tickets get listed for sale, people just dogpile on it.
In other words, tons of people come to this website simultaneously and tried to buy the exact same
ticket.
You probably want to make sure that nobody clicks on, go to checkout and enters their payment information
for a ticket that has already been sold to some other user.
So you probably want to have some ability to say, Hey, sorry, but someone else is in the process
of purchasing these tickets or something similar.
So with all this in mind, let's take a look at a brief summary of some of the business rules around
the app that we are going to put together.
Okay.
So we're going to build a ticketing app.
It is definitely let me say right up front, it is not going to be as fully featured as StubHub, so
it's not going to have the ideas of, say, different dates.
If I can go back to that StubHub we saw just a moment ago, we had different dates and whatnot.
It also had these different defined events.
We're not going to have that level of complexity.
Instead, we're really just going to focus on the ticketing aspect of this.
So in our application, users can list tickets for an event for sale.
So these might be tickets to a concert, sports sporting event, whatever else other users can then
purchase that ticket after it's been listed.
Any user who signs up to an application can list tickets and purchase tickets.
So no user is more special than another.
Anyone can sell a ticket, anyone can purchase that ticket.
And in our application, we're even going to say you could purchase your own tickets if you wanted to
for some crazy reason.
Now here's the really important part.
Whenever a user attempts to purchase a ticket.
So in other words, when a user clicks on some purchase button, the ticket is then going to be locked
for 15 minutes.
So the user will then have 15 minutes to enter their payment information.
So when I say when a user attempts to purchase a ticket, I mean like you saw me do just a moment ago.
I clicked on.
Go to checkout.
So we're going to take clicking on something like go to checkout as a user intending to buy this ticket.
And at that point in time we are going to lock the ticket and no other user should be able to purchase
this ticket from out from underneath this person.
So when I click on Go to Checkout, I have not actually entered any payment information or anything
like that.
So a user still has to pay or enter their payment information within 15 minutes.
It is just expressing the intent to purchase the ticket.
That's going to lock it for 15 minutes.
Now, if you don't like the idea of 15 minutes here, if you think that's too long, it doesn't matter.
I mean, we can make this 30 seconds very easily.
When I was first building this application, I made the timer 30 seconds just to make it easier to test.
So 15 minutes not at all relevant.
While that ticket is locked, no other user can purchase the ticket.
As a matter of fact, it's just not even going to be displayed to other users.
So the instant someone locks the ticket, other users who are searching for tickets, they just won't
even see this one that has been locked.
Naturally, after those 15 minutes, the ticket should automatically be unlocked.
So 15 minutes, buy it or not.
That's it.
That's all you get.
And then, of course, we want to probably allow users to edit tickets because who knows, maybe ticket
prices are dropping really quickly and they want to update the price or something like that.
So we should be able to edit a ticket price if the ticket is not already locked.
And this little item right here, this nice little thing, this is going to be a source of some really
interesting challenges.
I mean, a lot of the stuff is but this one in particular, because it's going to very clearly demonstrate
some big challenges around asynchronous communication in microservices, I can very easily tell you
why.
Imagine the scenario.
In which some user out there lists a ticket for $100 and then some amount of time later, another user
clicks on purchase ticket.
So in one instant in time, a user attempts to purchase the ticket and the thing should be locked.
And let's imagine that at the same exact point in time, the user who owns the ticket and who listed
it changes the price to $1,000 or something like that.
So at the same time, one person tries to lock it.
At the same time, someone else tries to change the price.
We're going to run into a ton of scenarios like that, or we have to figure out how to handle these
events in some very precise, well codified, testable fashion.
And that's going to be where a lot of not just this scenario right here, not just this editing while
locked, there's going to be a lot of things like that inside this application that we have to deal
with.
All right.
So that's an overview of the business logic inside of our app.
Never.
Really quickly, I just want to run through a couple of mock ups.
These mock ups are not at all exhaustive.
So these mock ups, for example, are not showing the actual ticket creation process or editing a ticket,
stuff like that.
Nonetheless, I just want to show you a couple of mock ups just so we have some picture in mind of what
we're going to be building because we're not going to work on the UI for this for a good amount of time.
We're going to first focus on a lot of back end setup, and I just want you to have some picture in
your mind of what we're going to eventually head towards.
So when a user first comes to our application, we're going to show him a list of all the different
tickets that are for sale on the top.
Right.
We'll have a header.
It will allow the user to either sign up or sign in for application.
This is going to be real production grade authentication.
So like I said, we're not really going to take a lot of shortcuts this time around, except for a couple
of locations I'm going to be very clear about.
So this will be very production grade authentication.
A user can sign up with an email and password.
Once they've signed up, they can also sign in once they are authenticated.
The main landing page is still going to show tickets for sale, but then we'll also update the header
as well.
A user can then sign out.
They can attempt to sell some tickets or they can attempt to take a look at all the orders that they
have in progress.
So in order is when a user has locked a ticket they have created in order.
Also, when a user has successfully purchased a ticket, that is in order as well.
So my orders is essentially going to list all the tickets that a user is trying to purchase.
If a user clicks on one of these tickets right here, we're then going to show some them some information
about that ticket.
So it's price and whether or not it is currently available for purchase.
A user can then click on purchase right there, which is equivalent to over on StubHub that go to checkout
button.
So as soon as the user clicks on that purchase right there, that is going to start up that 15 minute
timer that's going to lock the ticket.
And so the user will go to a screen like this right here, something that says, all right, you got
30 seconds left to order.
We're going to have a little timer right there that automatically counts down.
We'll have a little button right there that user can click on to pay for the ticket.
When they click on that, we'll pop up a little modal like this that allows them to enter in their credit
card and expiration.
We are going to handle a real credit cards here so we can use Stripe, JRS or Stripe as payment processing.
So we will be able to enter in, in theory, real credit card numbers with real money, all that kind
of good stuff to purchase these tickets.
Again, not really cutting a lot of corners here.
Final thing I want to mention beyond the fact that, remember, this is not the full set of mock ups.
I didn't I meant to mention this in the last video when we were talking about some of these big changes
to our application.
We are going to have real databases this time around as opposed to our first application.
We're also going to make use of a way more production grade event bus than the homemade one we had previously.
So as you can see, there's a lot of interesting stuff here, a lot of UI to build.
Even though this flow right here looks very simplistic in nature, there's a lot of super subtle, very
nasty little bugs and opportunities to go crazy in this application.
So it's a tremendous amount of work.
I cannot tell you how much more work this is going to be than the first application, but we're going
to learn so much along the way, and I don't know if you can tell from my voice, but I am super excited
about this.
So let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video.
And I want to outline some general architecture, some of the different technologies we're going to
be using, because there really is, like I said, a lot of stuff going on here.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.